Post: Lifehacking 101: journaling as a continuous learning process (#219)
mauroservienti/milestone.github.io: _posts/journaling-as-a-continuous-learning-process.md

---
layout: post
header_image: /img/posts/journaling-as-a-continuous-learning-process/header.jpg
title: "Lifehacking 101: journaling as a continuous learning process"
author: Mauro Servienti

> synopsis: "Brainstorming alone is painful for me. Questions like "what can I improve?" or "what's going wrong?" hardly get answered. Journaling is helping me in shaping what's next."

Author: No. Good catch.

> synopsis: "Brainstorming alone is painful for me. Questions like "what can I improve?" or "what's going wrong?" hardly get answered. Journaling is helping me in shaping what's next."

Author: ```suggestion
synopsis: "Brainstorming alone is painful for me. Questions like 'what can I improve?' or 'what's going wrong?' hardly get answered. Journaling is helping me in shaping what's next."
```

tags:
- Time management
- To-Do lists
- Context switching
- Jorunaling
---

> In the last two installments, "Lifehacking 101: I'm bad at to-do lists, now what?" and "Lifehacking 101: without data we're blind", I described some of the problems and some of the corrections I implemented over the years to alleviate or fix these problems.

Author: ```suggestion
In the last two installments, ["Lifehacking 101: I'm bad at to-do lists, now what?"](https://milestone.topics.it/2021/02/19/bad-at-to-do-lists-now-what.html) and ["Lifehacking 101: without data we're blind"](https://milestone.topics.it/2021/02/24/without-data-we-re-blind.html), I described some of the problems and some of the corrections I implemented over the years to alleviate or fix these problems. For example, I stopped using to-do lists except for keeping track of groceries. I turned my to-do list(s) into a backlog that acts as a source of tasks for the Friday planning session. Another implemented solution was to reorganize my schedule to allow for longer time slots dedicated to specific tasks, leading to less context switching throughout the day without reducing the number of things I'm doing.
```

For example, as I said in a previous post, I try to read a lot. By a lot, I mean that I read 40 to 50 articles a week for personal leisure on average. Simultaneously, two books, one work-related and one for entertainment, such as a novel or about some topic I'm interested in, be it economics or psychology. Those habits have a nasty side effect; they put a lot of psychological pressure on me to get things done every day. I feel pressed to read articles and to read books. Previous to journaling, I read as many articles as I could the first thing in the morning. It was giving me a sense of relief: I did it! However, I was reading books only every other day, too little to be satisfying. I noticed that by journaling. I was consistently logging a negative outcome and a positive one related to articles. I swapped the two activities. I read books in the early morning, more or less for half an hour. And use articles as the filler activity throughout the day. The result is that I read the same amount of articles and I also read books every day.

## Conclusion

> There are two things that I don't like. Getting at my desk every morning and being faced with the question, "what am I going to do today?," is one. It is an open door for context switching and unproductivity. It can only destroy my day. The second is that I'm bad at is brainstorming alone. If I need to sit down and think about questions like "what can I improve?" or "what's going wrong?" it'll get me nowhere. Carefully planning my week proved to be extremely effective in answering the first question. Journaling appears to be influential in shaping what's next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two things that I don't like. Getting at my desk every morning and being faced with the question, "what am I going to do today?," is one. It is an open door for context switching and non-productivity. It can only destroy my day. The second is that I'm bad at brainstorming alone. If I need to sit down and think about questions like "what can I improve?" or "what's going wrong?" it'll get me nowhere. Carefully planning my week proved to be extremely effective in answering the first question. Journaling appears to be influential in shaping what's next.
```
